Access modes for single node single/multi writer (#476)
container-storage-interface/spec: spec.md

      // Can be published as read/write at multiple nodes
      // simultaneously.
      MULTI_NODE_MULTI_WRITER = 5;

>       // Can only be published once as read/write at a single worklad on

Reviewer: typo in word worklad.

Author: Fixed

      // on a single node, at any given time.

>       SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER = 6 [(alpha_enum_value) = true];

Reviewer 2: CO's using the experimental capability `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` should probably avoid specifying `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER`, yes? if for no other reason than for clarity. if so, please mention that here.

Author: Yes, COs should not use `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER` in this case. Added this to the description.

      // Can be published as read/write at multiple workloads on a
      // single node simultaneously.

>       SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER = 7 [(alpha_enum_value) = true];

Reviewer 2: @chhsia0 any initial thoughts re: Mesos compatibility?

Reviewer 3: This seems okay at a first glance. At least this is the same as how Mesos shared persistent volumes work: http://mesos.apache.org/documentation/latest/shared-resources/

      // Can be published as read/write at multiple nodes
      // simultaneously.
      MULTI_NODE_MULTI_WRITER = 5;

      // Can only be published once as read/write at a single workload

>       // on a single node, at any given time. Should be used instead of

Author: Yes, thanks for the heads up

      // This enables COs to, for example, fetch per volume
      // condition after a volume is provisioned.
      GET_VOLUME = 12 [(alpha_enum_value) = true];

      // Indicates the SP supports the SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER access
      // mode.
      SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER = 13 [(alpha_enum_value) = true];

>     }

Reviewer: Why does this exists as a control-plane capability?

Author: COs require this capability in order to determine which access mode to supply for control plane operations that take `VolumeCapability`, like `CreateVolume()`. This capability will be used in the same way as the capability on the node side.

Reviewer 4: @chrishenzie just to understand in bit more depth, but for COs with controller service operations, its just about knowing `SINGLE_NODE` or `MULTI_NODE` , isnt it ?  in that sense, `writer` thing ( single or multiple) is not relevant for CO's  control plane operations ?

Author: Yes, the number of writers here does not make a difference.

If this RPC failed, or the CO does not know if it failed or not, it MAY choose to call `NodePublishVolume` again, or choose to call `NodeUnpublishVolume`.

> This RPC MAY be called by the CO multiple times on the same node for the same volume with possibly different `target_path` and/or other arguments if the volume has MULTI_NODE or SINGLE_NODDE_MULTI_WRITER (see second table) access modes. Example MULTI_NODE access modes include `MULTI_NODE_READER_ONLY`, `MULTI_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER` or `MULTI_NODE_MULTI_WRITER`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This RPC MAY be called by the CO multiple times on the same node for the same volume with possibly different `target_path` and/or other arguments if the volume has MULTI_NODE or SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER (see second table) access modes. Example MULTI_NODE access modes include `MULTI_NODE_READER_ONLY`, `MULTI_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER` or `MULTI_NODE_MULTI_WRITER`.
```

Author: Thanks for catching this

| MULTI_NODE     | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                 |
| Non MULTI_NODE | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | FAILED_PRECONDITION | FAILED_PRECONDITION|

NOTE: If the Plugin supports the `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` capability, use the following table instead for what the Plugin SHOULD return when receiving a second `NodePublishVolume` on the same volume on the same node:

|                                       | T1=T2, P1=P2    | T1=T2, P1!=P2  | T1!=T2, P1=P2       | T1!=T2, P1!=P2      |
|---------------------------------------|-----------------|----------------|---------------------|---------------------|
| SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER             | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | FAILED_PRECONDITION | FAILED_PRECONDITION |
| SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER              | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                  |
| MULTI_NODE                            | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                  |
| Non MULTI_NODE                        | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | FAILED_PRECONDITION | FAILED_PRECONDITION |

> The `SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER` and `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` access modes are intended to replace the `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER` access mode to clarify the number of writers for a volume on a single node. Plugins MUST continue to accept and allow use of the `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER` access mode to permit older COs to continue working.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER` and `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` access modes are intended to replace the `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER` access mode to clarify the number of writers for a volume on a single node. Plugins MUST accept and allow use of the `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER` access mode (subject to the processing rules above), when either `SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER` and/or `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` are supported, in order to permit older COs to continue working.
```
^ is this more precise? or do I not understand what the goal is?

Reviewer 2: I feel like this should probably be called out somewhere in the generated .proto too

Author: Yes this is useful, thank you.
- I called this out on the `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` access mode capabilities in the node and controller services
- I updated the `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` capability to explain it implies support for either or both access modes
- The node service capability description contains "(subject to the processing rules for NodePublishVolume)", I left it out for the controller service capability description since these access modes are also used in other RPCs like CreateVolume where these rules don't apply

> This RPC MAY be called by the CO multiple times on the same node for the same volume with possibly different `target_path` and/or other arguments if the volume has MULTI_NODE capability (i.e., `access_mode` is either `MULTI_NODE_READER_ONLY`, `MULTI_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER` or `MULTI_NODE_MULTI_WRITER`).

Reviewer 5: Should the `the volume has MULTI_NODE capability` bit in the sentence above be amended to also include `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER`?

Author: Yes this is a good idea. Added, here is the amended sentence. Is this understandable?

> This RPC MAY be called by the CO multiple times on the same node for the same volume with possibly different `target_path` and/or other arguments if the volume has MULTI_NODE or SINGLE_NODDE_MULTI_WRITER (see second table) access modes. Example MULTI_NODE access modes include `MULTI_NODE_READER_ONLY`, `MULTI_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER` or `MULTI_NODE_MULTI_WRITER.

| MULTI_NODE     | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                 |
| Non MULTI_NODE | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | FAILED_PRECONDITION | FAILED_PRECONDITION|

NOTE: If the Plugin supports the `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` capability, use the following table instead for what the Plugin SHOULD return when receiving a second `NodePublishVolume` on the same volume on the same node:

|                                       | T1=T2, P1=P2    | T1=T2, P1!=P2  | T1!=T2, P1=P2       | T1!=T2, P1!=P2      |
|---------------------------------------|-----------------|----------------|---------------------|---------------------|
| SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER             | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | FAILED_PRECONDITION | FAILED_PRECONDITION |
| SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER              | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                  |
| MULTI_NODE                            | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                  |
| Non MULTI_NODE                        | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | FAILED_PRECONDITION | FAILED_PRECONDITION |

> The `SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER` and `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` access modes are intended to replace the `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER` access mode to clarify the number of writers for a volume on a single node. Plugins MUST continue to accept and allow use of the `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER` access mode to support older COs to continue working.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The `SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER` and `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` access modes are intended to replace the `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER` access mode to clarify the number of writers for a volume on a single node. Plugins MUST continue to accept and allow use of the `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER` access mode to permit older COs to continue working.
```

Author: Fixed this.

| MULTI_NODE     | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                 |
| Non MULTI_NODE | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | FAILED_PRECONDITION | FAILED_PRECONDITION|

NOTE: If the Plugin supports the `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` capability, use the following table instead for what the Plugin SHOULD return when receiving a second `NodePublishVolume` on the same volume on the same node:

|                                | T1=T2, P1=P2    | T1=T2, P1!=P2  | T1!=T2, P1=P2       | T1!=T2, P1!=P2      |
|--------------------------------|-----------------|----------------|---------------------|---------------------|
| SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER      | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | FAILED_PRECONDITION | FAILED_PRECONDITION |

> | Non SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER  | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                  |

Reviewer: Did `Non SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER` meant -> `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` ? We are saying above that - this table applies for `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` but we don't use that word in the table - so it is bit confusing.

Author: Yeah, I went back and forth on the wording here. I had a row for `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` but realized I would probably also need a row for "Everything else" but it would be treated in the same way as `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` so I combined them into the "Non" row. I think having a row for this to make it explicit is a good idea, I'll add this.

Author: Done

| MULTI_NODE     | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                 |
| Non MULTI_NODE | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | FAILED_PRECONDITION | FAILED_PRECONDITION|

NOTE: If the Plugin supports the `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` capability, use the following table instead for what the Plugin SHOULD return when receiving a second `NodePublishVolume` on the same volume on the same node:

|                                       | T1=T2, P1=P2    | T1=T2, P1!=P2  | T1!=T2, P1=P2       | T1!=T2, P1!=P2      |
|---------------------------------------|-----------------|----------------|---------------------|---------------------|
| SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER             | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | FAILED_PRECONDITION | FAILED_PRECONDITION |
| SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER              | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                  |

> | Non SINGLE_NODE_{SINGLE,MULTI}_WRITER | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                  |

Author: Done, expanded the table to include the `MULTI_NODE` and Non `MULTI_NODE` in the above table, and left a note requiring continued support for `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER`

| MULTI_NODE     | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                 |
| Non MULTI_NODE | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | FAILED_PRECONDITION | FAILED_PRECONDITION|

NOTE: If the Plugin supports the `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` capability, use the following table instead for what the Plugin SHOULD return when receiving a second `NodePublishVolume` on the same volume on the same node:

> 

Reviewer: So I think we might have a problem here - can you query control-plane capabilities from node service?

Author: The node service has an equivalent capability bit that is used for determining which access mode to supply for node operations that take `VolumeCapability`.

> |                                       | T1=T2, P1=P2    | T1=T2, P1!=P2  | T1!=T2, P1=P2       | T1!=T2, P1!=P2      |

Reviewer 6: nit: Can you add an explanation before or after these tables explaining what T1, T2, P1, P2 are in this context (I realize existing table doesn't do this, but let's fix it while we're here).

Author: Done. There was a little section on that below the table. I moved it to the top of the first table so it's the first thing the user sees.

|---------------------------------------|-----------------|----------------|---------------------|---------------------|
| SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER             | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | FAILED_PRECONDITION | FAILED_PRECONDITION |
| SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER              | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                  |
| MULTI_NODE                            | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                  |
| Non MULTI_NODE                        | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | FAILED_PRECONDITION | FAILED_PRECONDITION |

> The `SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER` and `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` access modes are intended to replace the `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER` access mode in order to clarify the number of writers for a volume on a single node. Plugins MUST continue to support `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER` to allow older COs to continue working.

Reviewer 6: > Plugins MUST continue to support `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER` to allow older COs to continue working.

Can you detail what "support" means here.

Author: Done, here is the new wording
> Plugins MUST continue to accept and allow use of the `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER` access mode to support older COs to continue working.

> 

Reviewer: Do we need to explicitly deprecate `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER` at some point? I guess we need to wait for new modes to go GA before we can deprecate older one.

Author: I think it would be a good idea, but there are no deprecation plans as of yet.

If this RPC failed, or the CO does not know if it failed or not, it MAY choose to call `NodePublishVolume` again, or choose to call `NodeUnpublishVolume`.

> This RPC MAY be called by the CO multiple times on the same node for the same volume with possibly different `target_path` and/or other arguments if the volume has MULTI_NODE or SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER (see second table) access modes. Example MULTI_NODE access modes include `MULTI_NODE_READER_ONLY`, `MULTI_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER` or `MULTI_NODE_MULTI_WRITER`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This RPC MAY be called by the CO multiple times on the same node for the same volume with possibly different `target_path` and/or other arguments if the volume has MULTI_NODE or SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER (see second table) access modes.
Example MULTI_NODE access modes include `MULTI_NODE_READER_ONLY`, `MULTI_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER` or `MULTI_NODE_MULTI_WRITER`.
```
^ nit: one sentence per line, please

Author: Done

| MULTI_NODE     | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                 |
| Non MULTI_NODE | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | FAILED_PRECONDITION | FAILED_PRECONDITION|

NOTE: If the Plugin supports the `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` capability, use the following table instead for what the Plugin SHOULD return when receiving a second `NodePublishVolume` on the same volume on the same node:

|                                       | T1=T2, P1=P2    | T1=T2, P1!=P2  | T1!=T2, P1=P2       | T1!=T2, P1!=P2      |
|---------------------------------------|-----------------|----------------|---------------------|---------------------|
| SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER             | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | FAILED_PRECONDITION | FAILED_PRECONDITION |
| SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER              | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                  |
| MULTI_NODE                            | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                  |
| Non MULTI_NODE                        | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | FAILED_PRECONDITION | FAILED_PRECONDITION |

> The `SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER` and `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` access modes are intended to replace the `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER` access mode to clarify the number of writers for a volume on a single node. Plugins MUST accept and allow use of the `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER` access mode (subject to the processing rules above), when either `SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER` and/or `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` are supported, in order to permit older COs to continue working.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER` and `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` access modes are intended to replace the `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER` access mode to clarify the number of writers for a volume on a single node.
Plugins MUST accept and allow use of the `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER` access mode (subject to the processing rules above), when either `SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER` and/or `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` are supported, in order to permit older COs to continue working.
```
one sentence per line

Author: Done

(`Tn`: target path of the n-th `NodePublishVolume`, `Pn`: other arguments of the n-th `NodePublishVolume` except `secrets`)

|                | T1=T2, P1=P2    | T1=T2, P1!=P2  | T1!=T2, P1=P2       | T1!=T2, P1!=P2     |
|----------------|-----------------|----------------|---------------------|--------------------|
| MULTI_NODE     | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                 |
| Non MULTI_NODE | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | FAILED_PRECONDITION | FAILED_PRECONDITION|

NOTE: If the Plugin supports the `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` capability, use the following table instead for what the Plugin SHOULD return when receiving a second `NodePublishVolume` on the same volume on the same node:

|                                       | T1=T2, P1=P2    | T1=T2, P1!=P2  | T1!=T2, P1=P2       | T1!=T2, P1!=P2      |
|---------------------------------------|-----------------|----------------|---------------------|---------------------|
| SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER             | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | FAILED_PRECONDITION | FAILED_PRECONDITION |

> | SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER              | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                  |

Reviewer: For many volume types - I suspect they may not support consuming same volume with different capability on same node. For  example - would they allow mounting volume with different mount flags or would they allow consuming volume both as block and fs volume at same time?

So I am bit doubtful that if "P1!=P2" and "T1!=T2" - node-publish will be okay (assuming driver really enforces supplied capabilities).  I suspect this will lead to drivers ignoring certain capabilities and allowing node-publish anyways. It may be okay, but strictly speaking they are not spec compliant then.

Author: We currently make the clarification that `Pn` refers to other arguments passed to `NodePublishVolume` except `secrets`. We could extend this to also include `volume_capability`. If we want to play it safe we could make this change just for the new table. Does this sound reasonable?

Reviewer: I think the *except `secrets`* wording does not make it clear, if calling `NodePublish` multiple times on same node has to be done with same secret or secrets can be different. I always found that wording to be ambiguous, so when we add `volume_capability` to it - does it mean the capabilities has to be same?  If yes - may be we should add more fields to the table. Something like:

```
T1!=T2, P1!=P2, Cap1!=Cap2 -> FAILED_PRECONDITION
T1!=T2, P1!=P2, Cap1==Cap2 -> OK
```

Author: Discussed this in the CSI standup, we're adding a sentence to make this explicit to avoid adding another column and more rows to the table. Added this sentence:
> COs SHOULD NOT call `NodePublishVolume` a second time with different `volume_capability`. If this happens, the Plugin SHOULD return `FAILED_PRECONDITION`.

Author: @bswartz for review on this

Reviewer 7: +1 I like it

Reviewer: Thanks. I think having explicit wording about capability helps. +1

| MULTI_NODE                            | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                  |
| Non MULTI_NODE                        | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | FAILED_PRECONDITION | FAILED_PRECONDITION |

The `SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER` and `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` access modes are intended to replace the `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER` access mode to clarify the number of writers for a volume on a single node.
Plugins MUST accept and allow use of the `SINGLE_NODE_WRITER` access mode (subject to the processing rules above), when either `SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER` and/or `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` are supported, in order to permit older COs to continue working.

> 

Reviewer: Do we need update `NodePublish` errors? Currently it says:

> | Exceeds capabilities | 9 FAILED_PRECONDITION | Indicates that the CO has exceeded the volume's capabilities because the volume does not have MULTI_NODE capability. | Caller MAY choose to call `ValidateVolumeCapabilities` to validate the volume capabilities, or wait for the volume to be unpublished on the node. |

Author: I would prefer not to introduce another error if possible. Since the condition is capabilities being exceeded, I think this description could be generalized to any time a CO requests capabilities not supported by the volume.

Author: Updated to use the error description for "Exceeds capabilities" used for ControllerExpandVolume and NodeExpandVolume which is more general:
> Indicates that CO has specified capabilities not supported by the volume.

Also updated this for NodeStageVolume since we used the old wording there as well.

If this RPC failed, or the CO does not know if it failed or not, it MAY choose to call `NodePublishVolume` again, or choose to call `NodeUnpublishVolume`.

> This RPC MAY be called by the CO multiple times on the same node for the same volume with possibly different `target_path` and/or other arguments if the volume has `MULTI_NODE` or `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` (see second table) access modes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This RPC MAY be called by the CO multiple times on the same node for the same volume with a possibly different `target_path` and/or other arguments if the volume supports either `MULTI_NODE_...` or `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` access modes (see second table).
```

> Example `MULTI_NODE` access modes include `MULTI_NODE_READER_ONLY`, `MULTI_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER` or `MULTI_NODE_MULTI_WRITER`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The possible `MULTI_NODE_...` access modes are `MULTI_NODE_READER_ONLY`, `MULTI_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER` or `MULTI_NODE_MULTI_WRITER`.
```

> COs SHOULD NOT call `NodePublishVolume` a second time with different `volume_capability`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
COs SHOULD NOT call `NodePublishVolume` a second time with a different `volume_capability`.
```

If this happens, the Plugin SHOULD return `FAILED_PRECONDITION`.
The following table shows what the Plugin SHOULD return when receiving a second `NodePublishVolume` on the same volume on the same node:

> (`Tn`: target path of the n-th `NodePublishVolume`, `Pn`: other arguments of the n-th `NodePublishVolume` except `secrets`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(**T<sub>n</sub>**: target path of the n<sup>th</sup> `NodePublishVolume`; **P<sub>n</sub>**: other arguments of the n<sup>th</sup> `NodePublishVolume` except `secrets`)
```

|                | T1=T2, P1=P2    | T1=T2, P1!=P2  | T1!=T2, P1=P2       | T1!=T2, P1!=P2     |
|----------------|-----------------|----------------|---------------------|--------------------|
| MULTI_NODE     | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                 |
| Non MULTI_NODE | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | FAILED_PRECONDITION | FAILED_PRECONDITION|

NOTE: If the Plugin supports the `SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER` capability, use the following table instead for what the Plugin SHOULD return when receiving a second `NodePublishVolume` on the same volume on the same node:

|                                       | T1=T2, P1=P2    | T1=T2, P1!=P2  | T1!=T2, P1=P2       | T1!=T2, P1!=P2      |
|---------------------------------------|-----------------|----------------|---------------------|---------------------|
| SINGLE_NODE_SINGLE_WRITER             | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | FAILED_PRECONDITION | FAILED_PRECONDITION |
| SINGLE_NODE_MULTI_WRITER              | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                  |

> | MULTI_NODE                            | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| MULTI_NODE_...                        | OK (idempotent) | ALREADY_EXISTS | OK                  | OK                  |
```

|-----------|-----------|-------------|-------------------|
| Volume does not exist | 5 NOT_FOUND | Indicates that a volume corresponding to the specified `volume_id` does not exist. | Caller MUST verify that the `volume_id` is correct and that the volume is accessible and has not been deleted before retrying with exponential back off. |
| Volume published but is incompatible | 6 ALREADY_EXISTS | Indicates that a volume corresponding to the specified `volume_id` has already been published at the specified `target_path` but is incompatible with the specified `volume_capability` or `readonly` flag. | Caller MUST fix the arguments before retrying. |

> | Exceeds capabilities | 9 FAILED_PRECONDITION | Indicates that CO has specified capabilities not supported by the volume. | Caller MAY choose to call `ValidateVolumeCapabilities` to validate the volume capabilities, or wait for the volume to be unpublished on the node. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Exceeds capabilities | 9 FAILED_PRECONDITION | Indicates that the CO has specified capabilities not supported by the volume. | Caller MAY choose to call `ValidateVolumeCapabilities` to validate the volume capabilities, or wait for the volume to be unpublished on the node. |
```
